# Sparrow Stage P1: Tooling and Basics

In this stage, you'll create a shared library and a simple program
that uses it.  You'll write a `Makefile` to build your code.  Your
library will help you manipulate bits of data.

See the overall project description [here](README.md).

## Corrections/updates

* Mar 18: update description to reflect that bitset indexing starts from the right
* Mar 27: add hints about vector
* Mar 29: you need to build libsparrow.so (original specs incorrectly said sparrow.so)

## Learning objectives
* use tools like a compile and make to produce libraries and programs
* organize functions within namespaces
* overload C++ functions
* manipulate bits
* use data types from the standard template library (STL): bitset, vector, and pair

## Directions

### Files and Compilation

Create the following files:
* Makefile
* sparrow.cpp
* sparrow.h
* p1.cpp

Running `make` should produce these files:
* `libsparrow.so` (a library) from `sparrow.cpp`
* `p1` (an executable that uses the libary) from `p1.cpp`

`sparrow.h` defines the interface of the library.  You'll be adding
features to this library and its interface over the course of the
term.

### Counting Bits

Create a `CountBits` function definition in `sparrow.cpp` with the following interface:

```cpp
unsigned CountBits(std::bitset<32> bits, unsigned pos, unsigned len);
```

This function should be in a `warmup` namespace inside a `sparrow`
namespace.  Look at `test2_bitcounter.cpp` for examples of how the
function can be used.  Basically, it should count how many of the bits
are 1's, considering only the bits defined by `pos` and `len`.

Examples:
* `sparrow::warmup::CountBits(bitset<32>{"11000000000000000000000000000001"}, 0, 32)` would return 3 (it's counting all the bits)
* `sparrow::warmup::CountBits(bitset<32>{"11000000000000000000000000000001"}, 2, 30)` would return 2 (we skip the first 1 -- remember index 0 starts on the right)
* `sparrow::warmup::CountBits(bitset<32>{"11000000000000000000000000000001"}, 2, 28)` would return 0 (we skip the last 1's too, which are on the left)

`CountBits` should work even if `pos` and `len` are too large -- if
you detect that, reduce accordingly.  For example, pos=0 and len=100
would become pos=0 and len=32.

### Overloading

Overload the `CountBits` function.  This second implementation should
take a vector of bitsets (`std::vector<std::bitset<32>>`) as the only
argument.  Count all the 1's (no need to worry about pos and len for
this one).

### Bit And

Now create a function that takes two vectors of bitsets:

```cpp
std::pair<std::vector<std::bitset<32>>, bool> BitAnd(std::vector<std::bitset<32>> a,
                                                     std::vector<std::bitset<32>> b);
```

Note that two values are returned: a vector of bitsets and a Boolean.
The Boolean whether the results are valid (true means they are).

When vectors `a` and `b` have the same length, the results should be
valid; otherwise, they should not be.

A valid result should have the same number of bitsets as the input
vectors have.  Do a bitwise `and` between the two bits at index N (of
`a` and `b`) to get the bitset at index N of the result.

Hints:
* you can create an empty vector of bitsets like this: `std::vector<std::bitset<32>> result;`
* you can add items to the vector like this: `result.push_back(????);`

We'll learn about vectors more in a later lecture.

### Executable

Write a `p1.cpp` program that uses your library.  The program should do a *bitwise and* between two bitsets:
* `11100000000001100000000000100010`
* `01110000000001111000000000100001`

You can/should hardcode these inputs in this case (we'll learn about
input later).  The program should print how many 1's there are in the
result (print nothing else).

Your program must use `BitAnd` and `CountBits` in your library.
