# Sparrow Stage P2: `NullableInts`

In this stage, you'll create an efficient way to represent a series of
integer values, some of which may be missing.  Floating points have
`NaN` (not a number), but there is no equivalent for integers.

See the overall project description [here](README.md).

## Corrections/updates

* Mar 30: tests 6-10 (those covering P2) are released
* Apr 3: update test 9 -- make printing of invalid NullableInts safe and remove requirement to use const

## Learning objectives
* create structs
* create pointers
* use indirection and address-of operators
* use const

## Directions

### `NullableInts` struct

If you want to have a list of ints, with some values missing, one way
would be to create a vector of int pointers -- you could use NULL to
represent the missing values.  This is a very inefficient approach.
An `int` is often only 4 bytes, but a pointer on a 64-bit CPU is
8-bytes.  So you would need 2-3x more memory to do this than a simple
vector of ints (exact overhead would depend on how many ints are
missing, among other things).  Furthermore, the ints wouldn't be
adjacent in memory, so this would not be a cache-friendly data
structure.

Instead, you'll pair up a regular vector of ints (not pointers!) with
bitsets.  The bits will indicate which integers are valid and which
should be ignored (a bit plus an arbitrary int value only consume 33
bits, whereas an int pointer with nullptr would be 64 bits).

To keep this information together (i.e., ints and valid bits), create
a `NullableInts` struct in the `sparrow` namespace in sparrow.h.  It
should have two members: `nums` (a vector of ints) and `valid` (a
vector of 32-bit bitsets).

The `num[idx]` value is only considered valid if `valid[i/32][i%32]`
is true.  The size of `nums` might not be a multiple of 32; this is
fine -- any code you write should ignore the extra valid bits at the
end.

#### Helper Code

For debugging, it will be useful to have a function that lets you
inspect the contents of a `NullableInts`.  Feel free to write your
own, or borrow from the following if you like:

```cpp
// print NullableInts                                                                    
std::ostream& operator<<(std::ostream &os, sparrow::NullableInts &obj) {
  std::cout << "NullableInts: [";
  for (int i=0; i<obj.nums.size(); i++) {
    if (obj.valid[i/32][i%32]) {
      std::cout << obj.nums[i];
    } else {
      std::cout << "null";
    }
    if (i < obj.nums.size()-1) {
      std::cout << ", ";
    }
  }
  std::cout << "]\n";
  return os;
}
```

### `DropZero` function

Create a `DropZero` function that takes a pointer to a `NullableInts`
struct as the only argument and returns nothing.  It should loop over
all the numbers and flip the corresponding valid bit to false whenever
it encounters a 0 in `nums`.

### `Average` function

Write an `Average` function that takes a pointer to NullableInts and
computes the average number (as a float), skipping any numbers not
marked as valid according to the bits.

Return a struct `AverageResult` (that you should define) with two
members, `value` (containing the computed result) and `ok`, a bool.
If you cannot compute an average because there are no valid numbers,
then `ok` should be false; it doesn't matter what `value` is in this
scenario.

### `Divide` function

Write a `Divide` function that takes two pointers to `NullableInts`
structs.  `Divide` will perform an element-wise division, such that
the output number at index `idx` will be the number in the first
`NullableInts` at index `idx` divided by the number at the same
position in the second `NullableInts`.

`Divide` should return a `DivideResult` struct that you'll define
-- it will have a `value` (a `NullableInts` object) and an `ok` to
indicate whether `value` is meaningful.

Your `Divide` function should first use the `BitAnd` function from the
`P1` stage to determine which bits will be valid in the result.  The
computed result at index `idx` should be considered valid if and only
if the numerator and denominator are considered valid in their
respective `NullableInts` inputs.

If `BitAnd` fails, you should *propagate* the error, meaning `Divide`
should indicate failure as well.  `Divide` may ignore other issues
(e.g., divide by zero, size mismatch, etc).

### Executable

Write a `p2.cpp` program that uses the new functionality in your library.

Paste in these values into `main` (feel free to modify depending on how you're managing namespaces):

```cpp
  NullableInts nints1{.nums={20,999,40,60}, .valid=vector{bitset<32>{"00000000000000000000000000001101"}}};
  NullableInts nints2{.nums={10,10,0,20}, .valid=vector{bitset<32>{"00000000000000000000000000001111"}}};
```

Remember that vector indexes start at 0 from the left, but bitset
indexes start at zero from the right, so `...1101` in `nints1` is
saying that the number at index 1 (999) is an arbitrary value
that should be ignored.

Write some code that does an element-wise division of `nints1` by
`nints2`, computes the average of the resulting numbers, and prints it
out.  Be sure to drop any zero values from the denominator prior to
doing the division.
