# Sparrow Stage P3: references and conversions

In this stage, you'll improve your functions related to
`NullableInts`, making use of references and const.  You'll also
create add conversion functions between `NullableInts` and other
formats.  Finally, you'll use your new functions to write a program
that constructs a `NullableInts` based on command line arguments.

See the overall project description [here](README.md).

## Corrections/updates

* none yet

## Learning objectives
* use references
* use const
* parse strings
* manipulate double pointers
* write programs that accept command line input

## Directions

### References

Overload your previous `Average` function that previously accepted a
**pointer** to a `NullableInts`; it should now be possible to call
`Average` with a **reference** to a `NullableInts` as well.  The
computation should be the equivalent either way (consider having one
function call the other to avoid copying code).

Add a safety check to the `Average` function that accepts a pointer to
check whether it is `nullptr` -- if it is, return an error (!ok)
rather than segfault.

### const

Both your `Average` functions should accept `const` inputs.

### `StrsToNullableInts`

Write a `StrsToNullableInts` function with this signature:

```cpp
NullableInts* StrsToNullableInts(std::vector<std::string> inputs);
```

Each entry in `inputs` will either be "null" or a string that can be
converted to an integer (e.g., something like "5" or "-368").  You
don't need to support other cases.

There should be an entry in `nums` (of `NullableInts`) corresponding
to every entry in `inputs`.  If you encounter a "null", it doesn't
matter what int you place in `nums`, but a `valid` bit for that
position should indicate that the value is to be ignored.

### NullableIntsToArray

Write a `NullableIntsToArray` function that accepts a reference to a
`NullableInts` (first arg) and a double pointer to int (second arg).
Callers will pass an address of an int pointer to this function.  You
will allocate an int array and make the caller's pointer point to the
first element of the array.

The size of the array should equal the number of valid entries in the
`NullableIntsToArray`.  This size should also be the return value of
the function.

Note that an int array does not support a notion of null or missing
values, so some indexes will shift over when you populate the array.
For example, if you `NullableInts` has something like [3,null,4], your
resulting int array will look like this: [3, 4].  Observe that 4 is at
index 2 in the original structure but at index 1 in the resulting
array.

### Executable

Write a `p3.cpp` program that uses the new functionality in your library.

It should accept command line arguments that are either ints or
"null".  Use `StrsToNullableInts` to convert these args to a
`NullableInts`, call `Average` on it, then print the result.

For example, `./p3 2 3` should print 2.5.  `./p3 2 null 3` would also
print 2.5 since `Average` ignores missing values.  Something like
`./p3 hello` may crash (you don't need to handle that scenario now).

If `Average` returns an error status (!ok), you should just print
"failed" -- you can expect that for runs like `./p3` or `./p3 null
null`.
