# Sparrow Stage P4: Object Oriented Programming

In this stage, you'll create an `IntColumn` class.  It will have
functionality similar to the `NullableInts` struct (series of ints,
with some values possibly missing), but will take advantage of
object-oriented programming features, such as methods, constructors,
public/private, and operator overloading.

`IntColumn` should have the following in `sparrow.h`:

```cpp
class IntColumn {
private:
  // you decide!
public:
  IntColumn();
  IntColumn(std::vector<std::string> inputs);
  void DropZero();
  AverageResult Average();
  IntColumn operator/(const IntColumn& other);
  int Size();
  const int* operator[](int idx);
};
```

You may not add any other members/methods to the `public` interface
(see exception below), but you can create whatever you like in
`private` to implement the internal details.  You can also use
`friend` as needed.  One option would be to copy logic from
`NullableInts`.  Another option would for `IntColumn` to be a wrapper
around `NullableInts`.  Refactoring can be challenging, but this
project doesn't necessarily require a lot of "new" code (instructor's
solution involves 16 new lines inside the new functions in
sparrow.cpp).

You can decide whether or not your private implementation will involve
pointers to heap memory.  If it does, be sure to correctly implement
destruction and copying (you may add these special functions to the
public interface if you take this approach).

See the overall project description [here](README.md).

## Corrections/updates

* Apr 17: you may use `friend`, but there are reasonable solutions without that

## Learning objectives
* refactor code to use classes and methods
* overload operators
* create "printable" objects

## Directions

### Constructors

```cpp
IntColumn(std::vector<std::string> inputs);
```

Each entry in `inputs` will either be "null" or a string that can be
converted to an integer (e.g., something like "5" or "-368").  You
don't need to support other cases.

```cpp
IntColumn();
```

Create an object containing 0 ints.

### Printability

Override `operator<<` so that users of your library can write code like this:

```cpp
std::cout << YOUR_INT_COLUMN;
```

The output should look like this (start with "IntColumn:", one number per line, and "null" for missing nums):

```
IntColumn:
1
-2
3
null
4
null
5
0
```

### `DropZero`, `Average`, and Division

`DropZero` and `Average` should work like they did with `NullableInts`,
but note that they take no additional arguments because they are
methods!

So users of your library used to write code like this:

```cpp
auto nints = sparrow::StrsToNullableInts(args);
auto result = sparrow::Average(nints); // need to pass in struct
```

But now they can write it like this
:
```cpp
auto col = sparrow::IntColumn(...);
auto result = col.Average() // no arg, operate on this
```

It should be possible to do an element-wise division of two
`IntColumn`'s as before, but now with `/` operator instead of a
`Divide` function:

```cpp
auto top = sparrow::IntColumn(...);
auto bottom = sparrow::IntColumn(...);
sparrow::IntColumn result = top/bottom;
```

In previous stages, you needed to propogate an error code (!ok) when
`BitAnd` returned an error, but that's not necessary here.  You can
handle cases such as that and divide-by-zero as you like (for example,
crash, return an empty `IntColumn`, whatever).

### Indexing

Users of your library should be able to get the size of an `IntColumn`
named `col` with `col.Size()`.  They should then be able to get an
integer at a position with `col[idx]`, where `0 <= idx < col.Size()`.
You should also support negative indexing, similar to Python, so that
`col[-idx]` is a shorthand for `col[col.Size()-idx]`.  For example,
`col[-1]` would give you the last number.

You do not need to otherwise support out of range indexes, but
`IntColumn` must supporting missing values within range.  If the value
at `idx` is missing, then `col[idx]` should return `nullptr`.
Otherwise, it should return a pointer to the number at that index.
The code using your library should NOT be required to `delete` this
integer when it's done, and your library should not leak memory.

### Executable

Write a `p4.cpp` program that uses the new functionality in your
library.  It should accept the same command line input as p3, but
should perform the following steps:

1. construct an `IntColumn` object from the command line args
2. drop zero values
3. print out the resulting column (using your `operator<<` overload)
4. print "Avg: ????" (either the average, or "failed" if that's not possible)

For example, if you run `./p4 4 null 2 0 -3`, the output should be:

```
IntColumn:
4
null
2
null
-3
Avg: 1
```
