# Sparrow Stage P6: Table

In this stage, you'll create a `Table` type that acts as a collection
of `NamedIntColumn`s.

## Corrections/updates

* none yet

## Learning objectives
* do file I/O
* work with shared pointers

## Directions

### Adding Columns

Internally, `Table` should have a vector of shared pointers to `NamedIntColumn` objects.

The default constructor (i.e., one that takes no arguments) for a
`Table` should create a table with no columns.  Add overloaded
`AddCol` functions to add columns:

```cpp
void AddCol(const NamedIntColumn& col);
void AddCol(std::shared_ptr<NamedIntColumn> col);
```

These should add the column to the end of the internal vector of
columns.  If you're not already passed a shared pointer, then copy the
column being passed in to a newly allocated heap object managed by a
shared pointer.

Here's an example of how you could use both overloads of `AddCol`:

```cpp
using namespace sparrow;
Table t;
t.AddCol(NamedIntColumn("A", {"1", "2", "null"}));
std::vector<std::string> col2vals{"4", "null", "6"};
auto col2 = std::make_shared<NamedIntColumn>("B", col2vals);
t.AddCol(col2);
```

Things you do NOT need to worry about for this project stage:
1. duplicate column names
2. differently sized columns

### Retrieving Columns

Overload `operator[]` so that `t["colname"]` returns a shared pointer
to a NamedIntColumn by that name.  You do NOT need to worry about the
column not existing.

Thanks to shared pointers, you could be able to add the same column to multiple tables:

```cpp
t2.AddCol(t1["some_col"]);
```

The column should then be deallocated when no more tables are using it
(assuming there are no other references to it either).

### Output

Overload `operator<<`.  First output the column names on one line separated by commas.  Then one line for each row, with the values separated by commas.

For example, for the `t` table earlier, `cout << t` would produce
this:

```
A,B
1,4
2,null
null,6
```

### File Input

In additional to the default constructor, there should be another
constructor that takes a file path as a string.  The constructor
should read that file and add the relevant columns.

You could imagine supporting CSVs (a popular table format), but to make parsing simpler, we'll assume there is one value per line.

An example input table looks like this:

```
3
2
A
1
2
3
B
4
5
6
```

The first number (3) indicates the number of rows and the second number (2) indicates the number of columns.  After that, each column appears consecutively.  We see an "A" column containing 1, 2, and 3; then a "B" column contains 4, 5, and 6.

You need to support "null" entries.  You do not need to worry about incorrectly formatted input.

### Division

Add operator overloads as necessary so that we can divide a column by
another column or divide a column by a single number.  The resulting
`NamedIntColumn` should be named something like "col/N" or
"col1/col2";

## Complete Example

Suppose `tbl1.txt` describes two columns like this:

```
3
2
A
10
20
30
B
10
5
15
```

We ought to be able to read it in and perform some computations to produce additional columns, like this:

```cpp
sparrow::Table t{"tbl1.txt"};
t.AddCol(*t["A"] / *t["B"]);
t.AddCol(*t["A"] / 10);
cout << t;
```

The result would look like this:

```
A,B,A/B,A/10
10,10,1,1
20,5,4,2
30,15,2,3
```
